Hi,

I know it costs work and effort to build this kind of applications, but IMHO you are just starting, your application is still a Pseudo Beta and you are asking for prices which are too much for what you are offering. Just a nice Mac like interface is not enough to ask so much at the beginning. 

Your application still lacks a bunch of important features, which takes time to implement, but you don't offer Reports, Calendar, Charts, Chat, Writeboard....mmmm, what I mean is that you have to give, before you start to recieve.

What shall I do with a free plan which jailed you in a limit of two users and no open projects? In a real world this plan is uselees and the 10$ plan is not that usefull. I know comparations are not nice, but the reallity is that internet is a wild world. Zoho Projects, e.g. an application which is running for more than 8 months gives you in their free plan unlimited user accounts, timesheets, 100 MB space, different reports options, including a nice gantt chart features, calendar, milestone calendar, you can add notes to tasks (with it you can build a Pseudo Ticket system), they have a relative crowed forum and they hear users request (which I guess you do aswell). Unfortunatelly the application does not have a Mac like look, for me a big drawback,  must admit.


GoPlan offers you as well a nice ticket sistem, mac like look and a bunch of nice features and is still cheaper than you on the 12$ plan (I don't like their free plan either)

What you need is a to be well known, attract a lot of users to you by giving them a lot a the beginning (like Zoho), create a nice big user community and then when you start to be big and strong, you can start to offer real world prices for a nice full featured mature application. Your application has potential but without a big user community mmmmmm....... there is no future.

Zoho makes this, Basecamp made that as well, ActiveCollab are making this as well.... and is working!!!!

just my 2 cents

Good Luck
Mario
